hello my name is Jay I want of expert
teachers here at what I meant no way
wait wait I'm an expert
IELTS teacher here at e2 language which
is a great platform that you should go
and check out in this lesson we're going
to look at IELTS writing task 2 and
we're gonna think about how to plan our
essay because this is an essential step
I've taken the IELTS quite a few times
admittedly and one thing that you need
to do is sketch out your ideas before
you start writing what you don't want to
do on test day is just go cool read the
question Bob up up up up up up and then
think oh I forgot that part of the
question or Oh something else went wrong
so let's think about this okay e to
language recommends a method of four
part method where you analyze and plan
you follow the e to language structure
you write with the criteria in mind that
is what the examiners are going to be
reading for in your essay and then you
check your work that is all in 40
minutes you can do it you can do it
let's just look closely now at the first
part analyze and plan where you should
spend about 4 minutes of your time ok
let's now look at the task imagine that
it's test day you've just sat down
you've opened up your test paper or
you're sitting and doing the
computer-delivered IELTS and you've just
seen the question prompt here we go says
you should spend about 40 minutes on
this task some people believe that there
should be fixed punishments for each
type of crime others however argue that
the circumstances of an individual crime
and the motivation for committing it
should always be taken into account when
deciding on the punishment discuss both
these views and give your own opinion
bla bla bla bla bla
woah this is a complicated essay topic
and there's many different little bits
here that we need to make sure that we
cover entirely if you only just cover
one part of it you're going to lose a
lot of marks in fact in task response I
think that's the main area where people
lose marks let's read it again
some people believe that this should be
fixed punishments for each type of crime
others however argue that the
circumstances of an individual crime and
the motivation for committing it should
always be taken into account when
deciding on the punishments discuss both
these views and give you our own opinion
okay let's do that let's plan this out a
little bit okay so what I'm going to do
on my piece of paper and by the way if
you're taking the computer-delivered
test you also will get a piece of paper
to plan on which is great you're going
to separate it out like this so there
should be fixed punishments for crimes
and the second part punishments should
depend on individual circumstances I'm
going to discuss both these views so
firstly there should be fixed
punishments for crimes well here are my
ideas first of all if there are fixed
punishments for crimes this is simpler
there'll be no need for a trial in a
court which means it'll be cheaper and
there'll be a more efficient justice
system secondly if there's fixed
punishments for crimes it means it will
deter others because knowing the penalty
in advance may discourage offenders so
what I've done here is I've taken that's
that part that first part of this
question prompt and I've come up with
two ideas for it that's going to become
a paragraph it's going to become a
double idea paragraph if you don't know
what that is check out our other videos
on how to structure paragraphs which is
essential or check it out on the
platform let's look at the second part
of this question punishment should
depend on individual circumstances and
motivation for a crime so this is the
other view and my idea here is that this
would make for a fairer system murder
and accidental killing are very
different for example but the same
punishment would be unfair here here I'm
going to write a single idea paragraph
okay and that's going to adequately
cover or answer that part of the
question so when we look back
our question here we have two parts that
we need to answer first part I'm going
to answer in a double idea paragraph
second part I'm going to answer in a
single idea paragraph then of course I
need to include my view because it says
that discuss both these views and give
your own opinion so my view is this
petty crimes could have the same
punishment for example graffiti or
speeding which would act as a deterrent
but serious crimes should be dealt with
individually okay remember that you're
spending about four minutes on planning
and this is why it's so essential
because that question prompt is very
complex lots of moving parts while
really three parts that you need to
consider and make sure you write about
okay I've broken it down into the first
two parts of the question and then I've
written about my own views now I'm going
to turn that into a well-written essay
with the next step of the method which
is to use the e2 language structure cool
one more thing which is that if you need
access to all of the methods if you'd
like feedback on your writing if you
want to have practice questions with
sample and model answers and much much
more including live classes tutorials
heaps of stuff for your IELTS go to e to
language comm it's much better
practicing there than on YouTube
YouTube's cool but e to language
arguably as far as I'm concerned it's
much cooler see you soon
[Music]